# Localization tutorial

Localize (translate) the trustroots. The complicated way.

## Prerequisities

- Install [poedit](https://poedit.net/) on your computer.
- Install [i18next-gettext-converter](https://github.com/i18next/i18next-gettext-converter)
  ```sh
  npm install i18next-conv -g
  ```

## Extract translation strings (optional)

**TL;DR** Ask your friendly Trustroots developers to do this step for you.

If you have your [Trustroots development environment](https://github.com/Trustroots/trustroots/blob/master/docs/Install.md) set up, run it with `npm start`.

Open the app and select the language you want to translate to. (@TODO how?)

Go to the page which you want to translate. Click around, both when you're signed in and signed out.

All the encountered untranslated strings get extracted to `public/locales/{locale}/{namespace}.json`.

## Convert the translation JSON files to PO (gettext) format

```sh
i18next-conv -l {locale} -s public/locales/{locale}/{namespace}.json -t {path/to/}{namespace}.po
```

So for example when we convert volunteering.json in Finnish (fi), we need to run

```sh
i18next-conv -l fi -s public/locales/fi/volunteering.json -t temporary_folder/volunteering.po
```

## Translate

Open the exported .po file with poedit and enjoy the translating. Save your work.

## Convert the PO files back to JSON

```sh
i18next-conv -l fi -s temporary_folder/volunteering.po -t public/locales/fi/volunteering.json
```

## Commit your translation in JSON format to trustroots repository

If you don't know how to do this step, send your translated JSON files to trustroots developers who will do it.

## @TODO

- automate
  - automate the extraction. A headless browser can be instructed to click around the app automatically.
  - automate the conversion from JSON to PO and vice-versa. Share the PO files with translators who don't need to worry about any of this complexity. They just translate the PO files with poedit.
